= Sinatra Support

==== A collection of useful utilities.

Sinatra Support's mission is to implement the things web apps will need 90% of the
time. Think of it as Rails's conveniences done the Sinatra way.

* *Documentation:* http://sinefunc.com/sinatra-support
* *Source:* http://github.com/sinefunc/sinatra-support

== Plugins

[{Sinatra::CssSupport}]       Provides CSS/Sass/Less support.
[{Sinatra::JsSupport}]        Provides JavaScript/CoffeeScript support.
[{Sinatra::Numeric}]          Helpers for showing percentages and currencies.
[{Sinatra::DateForms}]        Provides dropdowns for year/month/date.
[{Sinatra::I18nSupport}]      Provides I18n support.
[{Sinatra::MultiRender}]      Allow rendering from multiple view paths and auto-guessing template engines.
[{Sinatra::CompassSupport}]   Adds support for the Compass CSS framework.
[{Sinatra::CompressedJS}]     JavaScript compression.
[{Sinatra::AppModule}]        Write parts of your application as a module.

== Helpers

[{Sinatra::CountryHelpers}]   Country dropdowns and stuff.
[{Sinatra::HtmlHelpers}]      Provides many common HTML helpers.
[{Sinatra::IfHelpers}]        Common HAML condition helpers.
[{Sinatra::UserAgentHelpers}] Browser detection.
[{Sinatra::OhmErrorHelpers}]  Allows you to present errors nicely
                              in HAML templates.

== How to use

Require the Sinatra support gem. For those using Bundler, that is:

  # Gemfile
  gem "sinatra-support", require: "sinatra/support"

Or otherwise:

  # gem install sinatra-support
  require 'sinatra/support'

In your Sinatra application, use +register+ or +helpers+ to add
in plugins as you need them.

  class Main < Sinatra::Base
    register Sinatra::DateForms
    helpers  Sinatra::HtmlHelpers
    helpers  Sinatra::CountryHelpers
  end

== Common examples

==== Provided by {Sinatra::UserAgentHelpers}:

Detect browser versions easily.

  helpers Sinatra::UserAgentHelpers

  if browser.ios? && !browser.ipad?
    redirect '/touch'
  end

==== Provided by {Sinatra::CssSupport}:

Serve up dynamic stylesheets (Sass/Less) with ease. Dynamic JavaScript files
(CoffeeScript) are also available via {Sinatra::JsSupport}.

  register Sinatra::CssSupport
  serve_css '/css', from: './app/css'

  # curl "http://localhost:4567/css/print.css"   # reads app/css/print.sass 
                                                 # (or .less, .scss, .css)

==== Provided by {Sinatra::IfHelpers}:

Conditional helpers for HAML (+checked_if+, +hide_if+, etc):

   %input{checked_if(page.available?), type: 'checkbox'}
   %div#comments{hide_if(post.comments.empty?)}

==== Provided by {Sinatra::CountryHelpers}:

  <select name="country"><%= country_choices %></select>

==== Provided by {Sinatra::DateForms}:

  <select name="birthday[month]"><%= month_choices %></select>
  <select name="birthday[day]"><%= day_choices %></select>
  <select name="birthday[year]"><%= year_choices %></select>
  
==== Provided by {Sinatra::Numeric}:

  <%= currency(100) %><!-- $100 -->
  <%= percentage(100) %><!-- 100.00% -->

==== Provided by {Sinatra::HtmlHelpers}:

  <%= h "<Bar>" %>
  
  <select name="categories">
    <%= select_options [['First', 1], ['Second', 2]] %>
  </select>
  
== Starting a new project?

Also consider Rico Sta. Cruz's sinatra-template which already preloads some of
Sinatra Support's conveniences and more. http://github.com/rstacruz/sinatra-template

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Cyril David, Rico Sta. Cruz and Sinefunc, Inc.
See LICENSE for details.
